# Introduction
Rust io_uring examples, based on [@tokio/io-uring](https://github.com/tokio-rs/io-uring)

## Networking examples
- [tcp_simple](examples/tcp_simple): A simple echo server in TCP, using only basic functionality
- [uds_simple](examples/uds_simple): As above, but using Unix Domain Sockets
- [tcp_multishot](examples/tcp_multishot): As in `tcp_simple`, but with `multishot` support for accept and receive.
- [uds_multishot](examples/uds_multishot): As in `tcp_multishot`, but with Unix Domain Sockets. (**pending**)

## Storage examples
- [xfs_simple](examples/xfs_simple): Using `io_uring` to read a file from XFS
- [nvme](examples/nvme): Using `io_uring` to read a NVMe device

# TODOs:

- UDP example
- Fix `xfs_simple` example
- Better docs all around
- Use [ring mapped buffers](https://github.com/axboe/liburing/wiki/io_uring-and-networking-in-2023#provided-buffers)

# Questions

- Should I use fixed buffers with NVMe commands?
- How do I create a QUIC example?
- How do I render the commands async?
- How many worker threads?

# Quiche

I'm creating a few examples using `io_uring` [here](https://github.com/espoal/uring_examples/), and I would like to add a simple quic example, starting from a client.

As you can see from the [tcp example](https://github.com/espoal/uring_examples/blob/main/examples/tcp_simple/src/main.rs) I have a simple network loop which waits for events from `io_uring` and keep track of them via a very simple state machine.

From what I understand `quiche` makes no assumption about which event loop it's going to be used with, so it would be perfect for my use case. On the client side what I would do would be:

- Create a new connection with `quiche::connect`
- Fire a `IORING_OP_CONNECT` submission directed toward the server
- Fire a `IORING_RECV_MULTISHOT` submission to listen for packets incoming from the server
- Call the `send` method to fetch data generated by quiche, and then send it using `IORING_OP_SENDMSG`
- Once data arrives, I should feed it to quiche via the `recv` method

I should then repeat the last two steps until the connection is established, and I've received what I want.